[DCOS-54126] Add docs for Cassandra 2.6.0-3.11.4 release (#2342)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/services/cassandra/2.6.0-3.11.4/configuration/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Configuring 

> excerpt: Installation options, configuration regions, node settings, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: Installation options, configuration regions, node settings, and more information
```

title: Configuring Cassandra
menuWeight: 42
model: /services/cassandra/data.yml
render: mustache
---

#include /services/include/configuration-install-with-options.tmpl
#include /services/include/configuration-create-json-file.tmpl
#include /services/include/configuration-service-settings.tmpl
#include /services/include/configuration-regions.tmpl

## {{ model.techShortName }} Node Settings

> Adjust the following settings to customize the amount of resources allocated to each node. DC/OS {{ model.techName }}'s [system requirements](http://{{ model.packageName }}.apache.org/doc/latest/operating/hardware.html) must be taken into consideration when adjusting these values. Reducing these values below those requirements may result in adverse performance and/or failures while using the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adjust the following settings to customize the amount of resources allocated to each node. DC/OS {{ model.techName }}'s [system requirements](http://{{ model.packageName }}.apache.org/doc/latest/operating/hardware.html) should be taken into consideration when adjusting these values. Reducing these values below those requirements may result in adverse performance and/or failures while using the service.
```

Each of the following settings can be customized under the **node** configuration section.

### Node Count

> Customize the `Node Count` setting (default 3) under the **node** configuration section. Consult the {{ model.techName }} documentation for minimum node count requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customize the `Node Count` setting (default 3) under the **node** configuration section. Read the {{ model.techName }} documentation for minimum node count requirements.
```

*   **In DC/OS CLI options.json**: `count`: integer (default: `3`)
*   **DC/OS web interface**: `NODES`: `integer`

### CPU

> You can customize the amount of CPU allocated to each node. A value of 1.0 is equivalent to one full dedicated CPU core on a machine, although all cores are made available via time slicing. Change this value by editing the **cpus** value under the **node** configuration section. Setting this too low will result in throttled tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the amount of CPU allocated to each node. A value of 1.0 is equivalent to one full dedicated CPU core on a machine, although all cores are made available via time slicing. Change this value by editing the **CPU** value under the **node** configuration section. Setting the CPU value too low will result in throttled tasks.
```

Author: we have field name cpus hence not changing it.

> Please note that each {{ model.techShortName }} node will use an additonal 1.0 CPU for sidecar services such as backup and nodetool. When provisioning 3 CPUS for each {{ model.techShortName }} node, the actual usage will be 4 CPUS, and this should be taken into account when configuring {{ model.techShortName }} to maximize resource utilization on an agent.

Reviewer: <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>Each {{ model.techShortName }} node will use an additional 1.0 CPU for sidecar services such as backup and node tool.</p>
```suggestion
<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>Each {{ model.techShortName }} node will use an additional 1.0 CPU for sidecar services such as backup and node tool.</p>

 When provisioning 3 CPUS for each {{ model.techShortName }} node, the actual usage will be 4 CPUS, and this should be taken into account when configuring {{ model.techShortName }} to maximize resource utilization on an agent.
```

> Please note that each {{ model.techShortName }} node will use an additonal 1.0 CPU for sidecar services such as backup and nodetool. When provisioning 3 CPUS for each {{ model.techShortName }} node, the actual usage will be 4 CPUS, and this should be taken into account when configuring {{ model.techShortName }} to maximize resource utilization on an agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>each {{ model.techShortName }} node will use an additional 1.0 CPU for sidecar services such as backup and node tool. </p>

When provisioning 3 CPUS for each {{ model.techShortName }} node, the actual usage will be 4 CPUS, and this should be taken into account when configuring {{ model.techShortName }} to maximize resource utilization on an agent.
```

Reviewer: @viivek46 Can you confirm the following and use the correct word?
`nodetool` or `node tool`
`sidecar` or `side car`

Author: sidecar is fine.

*   **In DC/OS CLI options.json**: `cpus`: number (default: `0.5`)
*   **DC/OS web interface**: `CASSANDRA_CPUS`: `number`

### Memory

> You can customize the amount of RAM allocated to each node. Change this value by editing the **mem** value (in MB) under the **node** configuration section. Setting this too low will result in out of memory errors. The `heap.size` setting must also be less than this value to prevent out of memory errors, which can result when the Java Virtual Machine attempts to allocate more memory than is available to the {{ model.techShortName }} process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the amount of RAM allocated to each node. You must change this value by editing the **mem** value (in MB) under the **node** configuration section. Setting this too low will result in out of memory errors. The `heap.size` setting must also be less than this value to prevent out of memory errors, which can result when the Java Virtual Machine attempts to allocate more memory than is available to the {{ model.techShortName }} process.
```

Author: no need to mention must here, i am mentioning "you can" to be more clear.

*   **DC/OS web interface**: `TASKCFG_ALL_JMX_PORT`: `integer`

### Storage Port

You can customize the port that {{ model.techName }} listens on for inter-node communication.

*   **In DC/OS CLI options.json**: `storage_port`: integer (default: `7000`)
*   **DC/OS web interface**: `TASKCFG_ALL_CASSANDRA_STORAGE_PORT`: `integer`

### SSL Storage Port

You can customize the port that {{ model.techName }} listens on for inter-node communication over SSL.

*   **In DC/OS CLI options.json**: `ssl_storage_port`: integer (default: `7001`)
*   **DC/OS web interface**: `TASKCFG_ALL_CASSANDRA_SSL_STORAGE_PORT`: `integer`

### Native Transport Port

You can customize the port that {{ model.techName }} listens on for CQL queries.

*   **In DC/OS CLI options.json**: `native_transport_port`: integer (default: `9042`)
*   **DC/OS web interface**: `TASKCFG_ALL_CASSANDRA_NATIVE_TRANSPORT_PORT`: `integer`

### RPC Port

You can customize the port that {{ model.techName }} listens on for Thrift RPC requests.

*   **In DC/OS CLI options.json**: `rpc_port`: integer (default: `9160`)
*   **DC/OS web interface**: `TASKCFG_ALL_CASSANDRA_RPC_PORT`: `integer`

### Native Authentication and Authorization

> To use Cassandra's native `PasswordAuthenticator` and `CassandraAuthorizer`, set the following configs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Cassandra's native `PasswordAuthenticator` and `CassandraAuthorizer`, set the following configurations:
```

```
{
  "service": {
    "security": {
      "authentication": {
        "enabled": true,
        "superuser": {
          "name": "<superuser-name>",
          "password_secret_path": "<service-name>/password"
        }
      },
      "authorization": {
        "enabled": true
      }
    }
  }
}

```

> This will deploy your Cassandra cluster with enhanced security protection which includes disabling the native cassandra superuser and replacing it with the superuser you specify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will deploy your Cassandra cluster with enhanced security protection, which includes disabling the native cassandra superuser and replacing it with the superuser that you specify.
```

> - Note: the `password_secret_path` should be the path to the superuser password in the secret store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong> The `password_secret_path` is the defined path to the superuser password in the secret store.</p>
```

### Custom Authentication and Authorization

> Support for custom authenticators and authorizers is also possible via base64 encoded YAML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support for custom authenticators and authorizers is also possible via `base64` encoded YAML.
```

> Add your custom YAML when installing {{ model.techName }}. You must base64 encode your block of YAML and enter this string into the `authentication_custom_cassandra_yml` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add your custom YAML when installing {{ model.techName }}. You must `base64` encode your block of YAML and enter this string into the `authentication_custom_cassandra_yml` field.
```

> Add your custom YAML when installing {{ model.techName }} service. You must base64 encode your block of YAML and enter this string into the 'authentication_custom_cassandra_yml' field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add your custom YAML when installing {{ model.techName }}. You must base64 encode your block of YAML and enter this string into the `authentication_custom_cassandra_yml` field.
```

> You can do this base64 encoding as part of your automated workflow, or you can do it manually with an [online converter](https://www.base64encode.org).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can do this `base64` encoding as part of your automated workflow, or you can do it manually with an [online converter](https://www.base64encode.org).
```

> For example, custom configs will look like the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the custom configurations are represented below:
```

```
{
  "service": {
    "security": {
      "authentication": {
        "enabled": true,

>         "authenticator": "Abc_Authenticator",

Reviewer 2: doesn't this need to be a java classpath? Thinking of [this](https://docs.datastax.com/en/security/6.0/security/Auth/secEnableDseAuthenticator.html)

>         "role_manager": "Abc_RoleManager",

Reviewer 2: same here?

        "authentication_custom_cassandra_yml": "YXV0aGVudGljYXRpb25fb3B0aW9uczoKICAgIGVuYWJsZWQ6IGZhbHNlCiAgICBkZWZhdWx0X3NjaGVtZTogaW50ZXJuYWwKICAgIGFsbG93X2RpZ2VzdF93aXRoX2tlcmJlcm9zOiB0cnVlCiAgICBwbGFpbl90ZXh0X3dpdGhvdXRfc3NsOiB3YXJuCiAgICB0cmFuc2l0aW9uYWxfbW9kZTogZGlzYWJsZWQKICAgIG90aGVyX3NjaGVtZXM6CiAgICBzY2hlbWVfcGVybWlzc2lvbnM6IGZhbHNl"
      },
      "authorization": {
        "enabled": true,

>         "authorizer": "Abc_Authorizer"

Reviewer 2: same

      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Disks

#### Volume Type

The service supports two volume types:
 - `ROOT` volumes are an isolated directory on the root volume, sharing IO/spindles with the rest of the host system.

>  - `MOUNT` volumes are a dedicated device or partition on a separate volume, with dedicated IO/spindles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `MOUNT` volumes are a dedicated device or partition on a separate volume with dedicated IO/spindles.
```

To configure the disk type:
*   **In DC/OS CLI options.json**: `disk_type`: string (default: `ROOT`)
*   **DC/OS web interface**: `CASSANDRA_DISK_TYPE`: `string`

#### Disk Scheduler

It is [recommended](http://docs.datastax.com/en/landing_page/doc/landing_page/recommendedSettings.html#recommendedSettings__optimizing-ssds) that you pre-configure your storage hosts to use the deadline IO scheduler in production environments.

## Rack-Aware Placement

{{ model.techShortName }}'s "rack"-based fault domain support is automatically enabled when specifying a placement constraint that uses the `@zone` key. For example, you could spread {{ model.techShortName }} nodes across a minimum of three different zones/racks by specifying the constraint `[["@zone", "GROUP_BY", "3"]]`. When a placement constraint specifying `@zone` is used, {{ model.techShortName }} nodes will be automatically configured with `rack`s that match the names of the zones. If no placement constraint referencing `@zone` is configured, all nodes will be configured with a default rack of `rack1`.

## {{ model.techName }} Configuration

> {{ model.techName }}'s configuration is configurable via the `{{ model.packageName }}` section of the service schema. Consult the service schema for a complete listing of available configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ model.techName }}'s configuration is configurable via the `{{ model.packageName }}` section of the service schema. Read the service schema for a complete listing of available configuration.
```

Reviewer: @viivek46 Please provide a link to the `service schema` documentation, if any.

## Multi-datacenter deployment

> To replicate data across data centers, {{ model.techName }} requires that you configure each cluster with the addresses of the seed nodes from every remote cluster. Here's what starting a multi-data-center {{ model.techName }} deployment would look like, running inside of a single DC/OS cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To replicate data across data centers, {{ model.techName }} requires that you configure each cluster with the addresses of the seed nodes from every remote cluster. Use the following steps to learn how to start a multi-data center {{ model.techName }} deployment running inside of a single DC/OS cluster.
```

### Launch two {{ model.techShortName }} clusters

> 1. Launch the first cluster with the default configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Launch the first cluster with the default configuration.
```

```shell
dcos package install {{ model.packageName }}
```

> 2. Create an `options.json` file for the second cluster that specifies a different service name and data center name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create an `options.json` file for the second cluster that specifies a different service name and data center name.
```

```json
{
  "service": {
    "name": "{{ model.serviceName }}2",
    "data_center": "dc2"
  }
}
```

> 3. Launch the second cluster with these custom options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Launch the second cluster with these custom options.
```

```
dcos package install {{ model.packageName }} --options=<options.json>
```

### Get the seed node IP addresses

> <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>If your {{ model.techShortName }} clusters are not on the same network, you must set up a proxying layer to route traffic.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>You must set up a proxying layer to route traffic only if your {{ model.techShortName }} clusters are not on the same network.</p>
```

> 1. Get the list of seed node addresses for the first cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Get the list of seed node addresses for the first cluster.
```

```shell
dcos {{ model.packageName }} --name={{ model.serviceName }} endpoints node
```

> Alternatively, you can get this information from the scheduler HTTP API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can get the list of seed node addresses from the scheduler HTTP API.
```

```json
DCOS_AUTH_TOKEN=$(dcos config show core.dcos_acs_token)
DCOS_URL=$(dcos config show core.dcos_url)
curl -H "authorization:token=$DCOS_AUTH_TOKEN" $DCOS_URL/service/{{ model.serviceName }}/v1/endpoints/node
```

> Your output will resemble:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output is as follows:
```

```
{
  "address": [
    "10.0.1.236:9042",
    "10.0.0.119:9042"
  ],
  "dns": [
    "node-0-server.{{ model.serviceName }}.autoip.dcos.thisdcos.directory:9042",
    "node-1-server.{{ model.serviceName }}.autoip.dcos.thisdcos.directory:9042"
  ],
  "vip": "node.{{ model.serviceName }}.l4lb.thisdcos.directory:9042"
}
```

> Note the IPs in the `address` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>The IPs in the `address` field.</p>
```

Reviewer: @viivek46 I've formatted the `Note` message but I would request you to complete this line with a meaningful message.

Author: @anithamuthu79  this Note here is not for "pay particular attention" but just to "record in writing", hence discarding this change.

> 2. Run the same command for your second {{ model.techShortName }} cluster and note the IPs in the `address` field:

Reviewer: @viivek46 call out the command here. Replace `same command` with the `command`.

Author: @anithamuthu79  commands are already below, and we have used "same command" here becuase it is same as first step.

```
dcos {{ model.packageName }} --name={{ model.serviceName }}2 endpoints node
```

### Update configuration for both clusters

1. Create an `options2.json` file with the IP addresses of the first cluster (`{{ model.serviceName }}`):

```json
{
  "service": {
    "remote_seeds": "10.0.1.236:9042,10.0.0.119:9042"
  }
}
```

> 2. Update the configuration of the second cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Update the configuration of the second cluster.
```

```
dcos {{ model.packageName }} --name={{ model.serviceName}}2 update start --options=options2.json
```

Perform the same operation on the first cluster, creating an `options.json` which contains the IP addresses of the second cluster (`{{ model.serviceName }}2`)'s seed nodes in the `service.remote_seeds` field. Then, update the first cluster's configuration: `dcos {{ model.packageName }} --name={{ model.serviceName }} update start --options=options.json`.

> Both schedulers will restart after each receives the configuration update, and each cluster will communicate with the seed nodes from the other cluster to establish a multi-data-center topology. Repeat this process for each new cluster you add.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both schedulers will restart after each receives the configuration update, and each cluster will communicate with the seed nodes from the other cluster to establish a multi-data center topology. Repeat this process for each new cluster you add.
```

Reviewer: @viivek46 Please be specific on the list of steps that an user must repeat for each new cluster to be added.

> You can monitor the progress of the update for the first cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can monitor the progress of the update for the first cluster using the following command:
```

```shell
dcos {{ model.packageName }} --name={{ model.serviceName }} update status
```

> Or for the second cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can monitor the progress of the update for the second cluster using the following command:
```

```shell
dcos {{ model.packageName }} --name={{ model.serviceName }}2 update status
```

> Your output will resemble:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output is as follows:
```

```shell
deploy (IN_PROGRESS)
└─ node-deploy (IN_PROGRESS)
   ├─ node-0:[server] (COMPLETE)
   ├─ node-1:[server] (COMPLETE)
   └─ node-2:[server] (PREPARED)
```

### Test your multi-datacenter configuration

> Be sure to test your deployment using a {{ model.techShortName }} client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to test your deployment using a {{ model.techShortName }} client.
```

```
{
  "service": {
    "security": {
      "authentication": {
        "enabled": true,
        "superuser": {
          "name": "<superuser-name>",
          "password_secret_path": "<service-name>/password"
        }
      },
      "authorization": {
        "enabled": true
      }
    }
  }
}

```

This will deploy your Cassandra cluster with enhanced security protection, which includes disabling the native cassandra superuser and replacing it with the superuser that you specify.

- <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong> The `password_secret_path` is the defined path to the superuser password in the secret store.</p>

### Custom Authentication and Authorization

Support for custom authenticators and authorizers is also possible via `base64` encoded YAML.

Add your custom YAML when installing {{ model.techName }}. You must `base64` encode your block of YAML and enter this string into the `authentication_custom_cassandra_yml` field.

You can do this `base64` encoding as part of your automated workflow, or you can do it manually with an [online converter](https://www.base64encode.org).

> For example, the custom configurations are represented below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the custom configurations are represented as follows:
```

```
{
  "service": {
    "security": {
      "authentication": {
        "enabled": true,
        "authenticator": "com.abc.cassandra.auth.AbcAuthenticator",
        "role_manager": "com.abc.cassandra.auth.AbcRoleManager",
        "authentication_custom_cassandra_yml": "YXV0aGVudGljYXRpb25fb3B0aW9uczoKICAgIGVuYWJsZWQ6IGZhbHNlCiAgICBkZWZhdWx0X3NjaGVtZTogaW50ZXJuYWwKICAgIGFsbG93X2RpZ2VzdF93aXRoX2tlcmJlcm9zOiB0cnVlCiAgICBwbGFpbl90ZXh0X3dpdGhvdXRfc3NsOiB3YXJuCiAgICB0cmFuc2l0aW9uYWxfbW9kZTogZGlzYWJsZWQKICAgIG90aGVyX3NjaGVtZXM6CiAgICBzY2hlbWVfcGVybWlzc2lvbnM6IGZhbHNl"
      },
      "authorization": {
        "enabled": true,
        "authorizer": "com.abc.cassandra.auth.AbcAuthorizer"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Disks

#### Volume Type

> The service supports two volume types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The service supports the following two volume types:
```

 - `ROOT` volumes are an isolated directory on the root volume, sharing IO/spindles with the rest of the host system.
 - `MOUNT` volumes are a dedicated device or partition on a separate volume with dedicated IO/spindles.

Using `MOUNT` volumes requires [additional configuration on each DC/OS agent system](/1.11/storage/mount-disk-resources/), so the service currently uses `ROOT` volumes by default. To ensure reliable and consistent performance in a production environment, you should configure `MOUNT` volumes on the machines that will run the service in your cluster, and then configure the following as `MOUNT` volumes:

> To configure the disk type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following to configure the disk type:
```

## {{ model.techName }} Configuration

{{ model.techName }}'s configuration is configurable via the `{{ model.packageName }}` section of the service schema. Read the service schema for a complete listing of available configuration.

## Multi-datacenter deployment

To replicate data across data centers, {{ model.techName }} requires that you configure each cluster with the addresses of the seed nodes from every remote cluster. Use the following steps to learn how to start a multi-data center {{ model.techName }} deployment running inside of a single DC/OS cluster.

### Launch two {{ model.techShortName }} clusters

1. Launch the first cluster with the default configuration.

```shell
dcos package install {{ model.packageName }}
```

2. Create an `options.json` file for the second cluster that specifies a different service name and data center name.

```json
{
  "service": {
    "name": "{{ model.serviceName }}2",
    "data_center": "dc2"
  }
}
```

> 3. Launch the second cluster with these custom options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Launch the second cluster with the following custom options.
```
